Instructions for Linx

Inititate a venv , I highly recommend doing it this way
 python3 -m venv venv
 source venv/bin/activate
 pip install fastapi uvicorn

To run app

 uvicorn main:app --reload

 terminal will indicate local server running app

 usually on ---> http://127.0.0.1:8000

 For interactive API docs go to --> http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs You will see the automatic interactive API documentation generated by FastAPI

FastAPI generates a "schema" with all your API using the OpenAPI standard for defining APIs.

"Schema"
A "schema" is a definition or description of something. Not the code that implements it, but just an abstract description.

API "schema"
In this case, OpenAPI is a specification that dictates how to define a schema of your API.

This schema definition includes your API paths, the possible parameters they take, etc.

OpenAPI Repo: https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification

Check the openapi.json
If you are curious about how the raw OpenAPI schema looks like, FastAPI automatically generates a JSON (schema) with the descriptions of all your API.

You can see it directly at: http://127.0.0.1:8000/openapi.json. (recommended: check "pretty print" box for better visuals.)

Configure the app entrypoint in pyproject.toml (create a pyproject.toml in directory touch pyproject.toml)

to read more about pyproject.toml (recommended reading) --> https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/writing-pyproject-toml/

You can configure where your app is located in a pyproject.toml file like:


[tool.fastapi]
entrypoint = "main:app"


Path Parameters in FastAPI

You can declare path parameters or variables to your API endpoints by using the @path operation decorator. same syntax as python format strings

Setting type (int, str etc.) is important if you want to validate your input and ge some useful error messages.

ORDER MATTERS

When creating path operations you need to declare them in order from most specific to least specific. similarly you cannot redefine a path operation with the same path, the first one will be used since the path matches first.


Using Enums

1. start by importing the Enum class from the enum module by using: from enum import Enum

2. create a class that inherits from the Enum class (check the example in main.py)

3. create a variable of the class and assign it to a path operation

4. use the variable in your path operation



